Client Design Youtube Clone

npx create-react-app youtube_clone
npm install styled-components react-router-dom

First we will create sidebar, then navbar, then content part.

create react component, we will not use html, we use styled components.

create components folder
create Menu.jsx
create navbar.jsx 

now style sidebar in app.js container.and menu.jsx 
add logo and name, add menu items like home and there logo.


for icons use material Icons
npm install @mui/icons-material @mui/material @emotion/styled @emotion/react


for theme, create folder utils > theme.js 
add some code in app.js, menu.jsx 


now come to navbar
after styling navbar

create ne folder pages > home.jsx and video.jsx
now create routes, import react-router-dom in app.js create routes 


create Card.jsx in components , it is card with video description and other details.
show that card from home.jsx

after all styling of card, now add route by using Link.

now we will create video page, this page have video content and recommendations .
created video frame, channel name subscribe button, now we will create commnts section.

create Comments.jsx
create comment.jsx

now come to recommendations

after it we will create login page.
in app.js add one more route to signin
create new file in pages> Signin.jsx 
use link to signin buttons to route to signin page 

after making signin page 

UI part is Completed.


----------------------------------------------------------
integrating with server

in package.json file ("proxy":"http://localhost:8080/api")

in home.jsx file use state and use effect

to fetch our data install axios library
npm install axios

use videos.map and removed all cards, soho card by axiosit should show numbers of cards we have number of videos in db, but it throws an axios error in console,
it is not going to server port, we need to stop react server, delete package-lock.json and node modules
rm -r package-lock.json node_modules
then npm install 

yes its working as expected.

as we have explore button subscriptions button, we have to display videos acccording to them.
in app.js create routes named trend and sub after home.
in home.jsx pass {type}

in Menu.jsx <Link to explore button and subscription button

in card.jsx pass the video, change imageUrl, video details with like video.title etc 

For displaying date like (2 days ago/ 1 month ago) we need to install timeago.js library 
npm install timeago.js 

now we will fetch channel image and channel name details in card as we fetched video details .


now lets create useState for signin page.
by using useState and using onChange we have the data now for signin button to send data
create function handleLogin
now button is working in console.log

it might be a problem because we have to use this information in navbar, sidebar, in menupage, in comment section, we need this user data everywhere
to handle this problem e need to use Context API / Redux....  we will use Redux

Create new folder redux in src 
Create new file userSlice.js, lets create redux toolkit

npm install @reduxjs/toolkit react-redux

we have created all functions like loginSuccess, loginFailure in userSlice.js , now we have to use them.

create new file store.js

in index.js wrap in <provider store={store}>, by this we can use store in any page any component anywhere, import store and provider.
some code in store etc. 

now use useSelector in Navbar.jsx

in navbar.js, currentUser?  for functionality of show signin button or user profile image
also do this with sidebar Menu.jsx

create videoSlice.js


now when we sigin its signin but whn we refresh the page its gone, we need to persist our user
npm install redux-persist

after code of all persistantuser and persistantgate etc now test the app, after refresh it persist th user.
now it means we have successfully logedin, and on click on subscription we can see our subscription videos



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

now come to signin with google
go to firebase.google.com > create project > name project > no analytics > build > authentication > google > enable > choose email address  > save.

now we can use google authentication, we need to install google firebase
npm install firebase

create new file firebase.js

goto server>

now lets work in Video.jsx to fetch video 

also now work for like and dislike buttons
and now subscribe button

they are working.
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 now come to video, till now we are displaying real youtube video, we delete the iframe and write videoFrame

 now for comments,even after working functionality for comments, comments is not shhowing XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX


 moving forward to upload
 create file Upload.jsx, UI is ready of upload page 
 now come to firebase > storage > set start > test mode > done
 work in Upload.jsx , now we can upload video also, 
 there is a problem then videoFrame is getting over on all elementts XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX



 now come to recommendation section
 reate new file Recommendation.jsx

 remove recommendation div
 now tag related videos are showing up in recommendation side

 now we will implement search functionlity

create new file Search.jsx 


All is now working..
comment, logout, light theme enhancement, upload video not popup are pending.



